- [Teacher] Now that we've seen
the four concurrency Enterprise Services,
let us talk about how concurrency deals
with the transaction management.
Now we all know this Java Transaction API
that we already have.
We have even talked about it in an earlier part
of the course, but let's quickly revise.
It's a list of interfaces that are provided
between the transaction manager
and the transaction management components,
like your application servers,
or your application code or your resource managers.
And there are many kinds of transactions that you can make.
Let's look at few scenarios:
I have a situation where there's one data source,
which is connected to a single database.
And then I have multiple data sources
connected to the same database.
And then, I have multiple data sources connected
to two different databases and that too over a network.
Which means, I have a situation
where it is a distributed network,
and I may have to perform transactions
over each of the machines in the network.
Now, when it is a distributed network,
there will be global transactions.
There may be transactions due to
threads, JMS queues, application servers, etc.
When we talk about concurrency programming with JTA,
it is definitely going to become a little more complicated.
If you have a distributed environment,
then the most basic operations like commit, rollback
along with concurrent processing can be really a challenge.
In order to guarantee that commit
and rollback operations successfully work
and the data integrity is mentioned,
that has definitely to be handled carefully.
So when it comes to concurrency programming,
it completely depends on the Java Transaction API
to make sure that these commit
and rollback operations work successfully.
We have this user transaction
javax.transaction.UserTransaction API, which is something
that your concurrency programming will rely on.
It helps developers to demarcate
those transaction boundaries.
So I may have the transaction which is spread
among different threads, CPU cores,
machines, or even networks.
But the user transaction API that I have with me
will ensure that all of these transactions
operating in a single unit will be managed correctly.
So when I say managed correctly,
there will be a commit when we are very sure
that all of the units transacting within
that single transactions are ready to commit.
Otherwise, if there is anything going wrong
in any of the bits in that transaction,
the entire data from the database will be rolled back,
and the database will be restored to the previous state.
So that's what this means.
And of course, we talked about a term
previously, which spoke about global transactions,
and XA extended architecture resources.
And we said that your database driver jars
should definitely have the XA resource available,
which can help you make sure that this global transaction
and distributed transaction process works well.
My SQL database server that we have chosen
and the driver jar corresponding to that
the dependency that we added in the project,
definitely has XA global resource
so we need not worry about it.
So if you want to try out concurrency programming
across a distributed network with the user transaction API
of Java transaction management, then yes,
you will be able to do it without any problem.
So just to make sure we are clear on what we're doing,
let's say if you have a thread
which is now performing a lot of transactions together,
look at this code that I'm showing on the slide right now.
You have this usertransaction.begin,
which is starting the boundary of the transaction.
And there after inside it, you can have many calls,
you can call an easy business method,
you can call a restful web service,
you can make a database call and all of these sources
may be placed across the network.
But once all of them finished their jobs,
then we are going to say commit and user transaction object
is going to take care that it commits
only if all those operations are definitely successful.
Otherwise, it will help us roll back the entire data
and we will be safe.
Now, whenever in a restful web application you want
to get hold of the Java transaction object,
the user transaction, yes it can be
very easily obtained using JNDI lookup.
We have done JNDI lookup before in all
of our demos and we know how it is done.
There are two ways you either do a JNDI lookup
or you inject it using the resource annotation.
But this object explicitly we're going
to have wire the JNDI lookup in restful classes
or whichever components that you want to inject into.